# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
models/property.rb

def initialize(options)

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?

 def save() in models/property.rb


Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?

lines: 13, 22, 31 and 33
property1.save()
property2.save() 
property3.save()
property1.delete()


Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?

We want the database SERIAL to come up with the id numbers that auto increment when we come up with new records rather than do that ourselves


Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?

In def save() where it gets Created
@id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i


Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?

We want to check if an id exists, given the id is a Primary Key we can't afford for it to be Null


Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?

You use a class method when targeting everything, eg Show ALL, Delete ALL. An instance method is when you want to be specific, eg find a specific ID
A single instance should never have the power to show or delete EVERYTHING in the database


Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?

It is an array with a hash inside it and we look at the array location and then the id's hash symbol, [0]["id"]


Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?

They prevent you from being able to carry out SQL injections and you can execute them again & again with great with a high level of performance.


## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?

One takes "id" the other "address"

Q11. What are their return values?

An instance of the class based on either the id or the address you passed in. If they don't exist you get a nil.
